♪Opening Song♪
[GINKO] One day, while I was
resting in a bamboo forest,
a strange man approached me.
[KISUKE] Excuse me, are you
heading down the mountain?
Yeah. That's right.
[KISUKE]
I see.
Planning on leaving the forest?
[GINKO]
Yes. I'm headed west.
I was hoping you'd say that.
Mind if I join you?
I'm a little turned around.
[GINKO]
You're lost?
[KISUKE] Yes. No matter
which way I turn,
I can't seem to find
my way out of here.
[GINKO] You must have a
lousy sense of direction.
[KISUKE]
It's been hard for me.
No one has passed through
here in over three years.
You're kidding.
[KISUKE]
No, really.
And I know this is
going to sound strange,
but I've been right
here the whole time.
[KISUKE] I'm originally
from the village
at the foot of the mountain.
[GINKO]
I see.
So, you're a local?
It's not like you can't
see the sun in here.
How could you get lost?
Well, to tell you the truth,
I don't really
understand how myself.
[GINKO] I must admit; this is
a huge bamboo forest.
[gasps]
--[footsteps]
--[GINKO pants]
Damnit. The same place!
What's going on?
I know it's not broken.
We started out heading west,
and then, before we knew it,
we were headed in
another direction.
We must have gone
further and further
off course and ended
up going in a circle.
As always,
that's what happens.
You can't get out.
What's up with this place?
[KISUKE] Looks like you've
been caught up here, too.
Tough luck.
Well, you're more than
welcome to live here with us.
Hey, that's not funny.
Come on--
Wait. Did you say "us"?
[KISUKE]
Yes.
A mother used to live
here with her daughter.
Ah!
[SETSU]
Kisuke!
Sadly, the mother passed
away a few years ago,
but her daughter
is now my wife.
We've known each other
since we were little kids.
So, at least some
good came from this.
[GINKO]
Huh...
This is Ginko.
He was just passing through.
My wife, Setsu.
[KISUKE]
Oh, and Ginko.
Sorry if I was any trouble.
I'm heading back home now.
Would you care to stay a while?
No. I'm going to keep on
looking for a way out.
[KISUKE]
All right then.
Be careful. See you later.
[GINKO]
"Be careful"?
What did he mean by that?
[gasps]
[GINKO]
I made it...
Glad that's over.
[OLD WOMAN 1]
Do you think he's all right?
[OLD WOMAN 2]
I can't tell. Maybe he's...
Need something?
Well, we were just curious.
You came out of the
bamboo forest, didn't you?
[GINKO]
Yeah?
Tell me, did you see a man
while you were in there?
Yeah.
I think he was trying
to play a joke on me.
Who is he, anyway?
That man's being held
hostage by a monster.
You're lucky.
You could've been caught, too.
Monster?
[OLD WOMAN 2]
Yes.
There's a white bamboo that
grows in that forest, and it--
[OLD WOMAN 1] Quiet! Don't tell
outsiders stories like that!
Think of all the rumors
you're going to start
about our village.
[gasps]
[KISUKE]
Ginko!
Weren't you able to
find a way out of here?
[GINKO]
I did.
But there was something I
wanted to see, so I came back.
[GINKO] I've heard that
there's a white bamboo
growing somewhere
in this forest.
Also, I heard something
strange about you...
...and your wife.
Tell me something,
Once you've seen it,
What do you plan to do?
[GINKO] If it falls under
my field of expertise,
I'd like to hear your
story in detail.
This is a rare phenomenon.
Who knows?
With enough information,
I might be able to find a
way to get you out of here.
It's too late to
tell me to walk away.
I'm going to do this,
with or without your help.
Follow me.
Here's the first one.
There are four others.
Huh. It's a "magaridake".
What?
This forest, tell me about it.
This place must have a history.
What happened here?
[KISUKE] This is a
story that the children
in the village are told.
And it begins with
a man and his wife.
[KISUKE] They lived here,
in this forest.
Though they tried
for many years,
the couple could not
conceive a child.
This depressed the husband,
who began spending more and
more time away from home.
His wife was a strange woman.
She would sometimes be seen
talking to trees and flowers,
and eventually began wandering
around the forest at night.
Then, one day,
she told her husband she
thought she might be pregnant.
The husband grew
suspicious of his wife.
So one night, he followed
her into the forest.
That's when he saw it.
His wife,
blissful and enamored,
embracing a white bamboo tree.
Frightened and confused,
the husband ran away.
But the villagers chastised him,
and he soon returned home.
There, he found his wife
cradling a bamboo shoot as
if it were a newborn baby.
She gave birth to
a bamboo shoot?
[KISUKE]
Yeah. That's what they say.
[GINKO] Maybe she was
just trying to taunt him
into leaving her.
That's what all the
villagers thought,
as well, and In the end,
the husband did run away.
Years later, when I was a boy,
we went into the forest to
see this "bamboo child".
She looked like a normal girl.
That girl was Setsu.
By that time, her mother
had already passed on.
We thought she might
be lonely, so I often came by
with my little sister
and some friends to play.
But we all sensed that there was
something different about Setsu.
She never ate, water was
all she would drink,
and she would never
leave the forest.
But we all liked, her
just the same.
Then, one day,
we came into this forest
and couldn't find our way out.
We went in circles,
over and over.
Soon after, one by one,
I began to lose
sight of the others.
Before I realized it,
I was the only one left.
The next day, those who
made it back to the village
came looking for me.
But once they found me,
they discovered they were
unable to find their way out.
[GINKO chuckles] So even though
you knew what would happen,
you still dragged
me into all this?
[laughs]
Sorry about that.
You're an outsider, I... wanted
to see what would happen.
After that, I moved into
Setsu's house with my sister,
who was my only family.
Everyone in the village
helped us out with food,
clothing, and whatever
else we needed.
They were all so kind.
My sister and I were practically
raised by the village.
They... were like family.
It was wonderful.
[KISUKE]
But, as time passed,
fewer and fewer villagers
stopped by to see us.
Kisuke?
Are you lonely?
Not at all.
I'm glad.
That's good to know.
[KISUKE] In time,
Setsu became pregnant.
[KISUKE]
But...
[BABY crying]
[KISUKE] That was
when I felt the truth
behind Setsu's origin....
...for the very first time.
The midwife ran back
to the village,
and no one else has ever come
to this place since then.
That's the story...
Though you probably
don't believe me.
Well, it is astounding.
So, this "magaridake"
you mentioned before.
What is it?
It's a bamboo by name,
but it's not a plant.
In a bamboo forest,
all of the bamboo trees
share the same roots.
Together, they are one, or you
could say they make up
a family of
successive generations.
The magaridake are mushi that
live off of these roots,
posing as one of the family.
They grow by taking in nutrients
from the roots of the bamboo.
In return, they give
back elements
that help make the forest green,
expanding the bamboo's
size and family.
Your wife was born from
a mushi and a human.
We mushi masters
call them "oniko".
Their existence
is extremely rare.
[GINKO] A little too much
to take in all at once?
[KISUKE]
No.
Not after seeing how my daughter
looked when she was born.
Whatever her parents were,
It doesn't matter.
She's still...
...Setsu.
I know the people down in the
village might not think so,
but if they ever meet her,
then they'll understand.
Who knows?
Maybe one day, we'll all live
in the village together.
[GINKO] So that's why you
want to leave this forest?
Yes.
Also, I'm worried
about my little sister.
I hope she hasn't
suffered because of me.
[GINKO]
I have an idea.
If you connect all the points
where he suddenly
changes direction,
it makes an almost
perfect circle.
That's what happens.
You can't get out.
[GINKO] And at the center of
the circle... is that stalk.
[GINKO] Is that the
water that gives life
to you and your daughter?
[SETSU]
Yes.
[GINKO]
Could you share some with me?
No, I'm sorry... I can't.
My mother told me that
I shouldn't give any
of this water to anyone,
especially outsiders.
Even Kisuke?
Well, actually.
I did give him some...
...back when we were
still just children.
[GINKO]
I see.
It must be hard on you,
being hated by the villagers.
It can be.
But, I don't mind.
My husband and daughter
are all I need.
It's sad that Kisuke's not
able to leave the forest,
but honestly...
...In a way, I'm happy.
[GINKO] Well, I'll just have
to borrow some then.
I'm sorry, but I
have to do this.
[GINKO]
Just as I suspected.
I'm trapped.
I can't get out.
Now this...
...is going to be a problem.
[giggles]
Ah... It's that time
of year again.
The leaves are starting to fall.
Mother bamboo is giving
these leave to her children.
They're the food that will
help them grow big and strong.
Uh... Which one is the mother?
They all are.
They're raising their
children together.
Your daddy...
...always thinks about the
village this time of the year.
[KISUKE]
It's big and full of life.
You wouldn't believe how
beautiful the sun is there.
I wish I could show it to you.
Maybe someday...
[sighs]
Will things be all right?
Kisuke...
He's not going to leave, is he?
--[footsteps]
--[SETSU gasps]
Then... you've found
what's causing this?
Yeah.
Unlike plants, mushi have
will, drive, and motivation.
They send out commands to
each part of themselves
to help carry out this will.
So in this case,
the mushi's body
is the forest surrounding
this one central stalk...
The medium that conveys
the stalk's will,
is the water flowing through it.
The same water
that Setsu drinks.
As you can see, normal water
shows no reaction
when placed near the stalk.
But...
Simply carrying this water
places you under the
influence of the mushi.
Obviously, those who drink
it are also under its will.
Just being near it, is enough
for it to have an effect.
[KISUKE sighs]
It sure is hot today.
I'm thirsty.
[SETSU] You can have a
sip of this, if you like.
[gasps]
As for Setsu, I don't think
she knew about any of this.
You're right.
She couldn't have known, but
what are we supposed to do now?
That's the problem.
We need to completely remove
that water from your body.
But frankly,
I'm not sure how to.
Now listen.
There is one other method,
but it's something that I'd
really rather not have to do.
I'm not sure... what effect
it might have on the others.
Oh...
[KISUKE]
I see.
In that case,
I can live with things
the way they are.
[SETSU]
So, it was you.
You were the one keeping
Kisuke here for me.
Thank you.
And I'm sorry...
[SETSU shouts]
[shouting continues]
What's going on?
[GINKO]
You won't be able to do it.
Because you're one
of its children.
You're a part of
the mushi's body.
Just as your limbs won't
go against your brain.
[GINKO] Were you listening
the whole time?
[SETSU]
Kisuke...
He's trapped here because of me.
But, I don't think
he's truly unhappy.
[SETSU] Kisuke brought
joy into my life.
A common woman like me.
And in return, I took his
village away from him.
He told me he didn't care
where I was from or
who my parents are.
None of that mattered,
because Kisuke's
in love with... Me!
[SETSU sobs]
[GINKO gasps]
[sobbing continues]
[GINKO]
No! Don't!
[SETSU shouts]
Setsu!
Now where could she have gone?
It's the village!
[KISUKE'S DAUGTHER crying]
[KISUKE]
Hey! It's me! Kisuke!
I was finally able to get out!
[KISUKE'S SISTER]
Brother?
Yes!
So, have you been well?
[KISUKE'S SISTER]
Is that...
Is that the child?
[KISUKE]
Yes!
[KISUKE'S SISTER]
Go away.
Wait! Listen to me!
[KISUKE'S SISTER]
Don't bring that thing down
to the village ever again!
I have a child of my own now.
Please, don't make my child
suffer the same way I did.
[crying continues]
[DAUGHTER]
Daddy? Where's Mommy?
Let's go home.
I bet she's there
waiting for us.
[GINKO]
I've been told that for a while,
the three of them
lived happily together.
[GINKO]
But then...
Six months later, when I
returned to the bamboo forest
to see the effects of cutting
down the parent stalk.
The magaridake.
They're all gone.
[KISUKE]
It's you...
[KISUKE] After that, the white
bamboo stalks wilted and died,
one after the other...
Just like... Just like
my wife and daughter.
That water.
They needed it to survive.
They shriveled up...
...like dead trees.
They suffered so much.
Setsu shouldn't have done that.
That was her parent.
I made her do it.
Because I couldn't forget
about the village.
Ah... Looks like it's about
that time of year again.
A white bamboo...
When did that--
[BABIES crying]
[KISUKE]
That sounds like...
...babies crying.
It's coming from the
direction of the graves.
[NARRATOR]
Next: "Pretense of Spring."